now that we've seen that every texture needs some sort of input.
Let's take a look at the different texture coordinate inputs that we have.
I just added a new note,
input texture coordinate and here you can see a range of options.
These all have individual benefits
and can be used to achieve different sorts of effects.
There also are some common misconceptions around them so I quickly want to go
over them one by one to illustrate better what we are looking at.
I made a demonstration file that displays the cordon map.
I plug in here in this main window on our
Suzanne and underneath it splits discordant map into its X.
Y. Z. Components
and displace each one individually.
That is achieved with a separate X Y. Z. Note from the converted category
and gives better insight into the map.
Generated coordinates are anchored to the local bounding box
of the object and ranged from 0 to 1
along each of the three axis.
That means that they move with the orientation and location of
the object and the scale is connected to the whole mesh.
So even when I go into edit mode and change the
mesh can see that the generated coordinates stretch along with it.
In the example seen,
I use them whenever I wanted a texture to flexibly only appear on the objects bounce.
For example, for the dust on the floor
and the gradient on the walls.
Normal coordinates are not coordinates in the
sense of location but rather direction.
Normal vector is equal to the direction perpendicular to the surface
and has a length of one.
You can see that on top of Suzanne's head, it points up,
the component is one and the other components are zero.
Here it points into a negative direction
and here all components are positive points like this.
These normals use local space so they are anchored to the objects transformation.
You can also get global normals from the geometry input node.
And they can be used to incorporate the objects geometry and a shader.
For example,
they are very useful to make a layer of
dust or snow only appear on surfaces facing upwards.
U.
V coordinates are the most conventional way to define a texture coordinate
space and opposed to all other coordinate spaces I am discussing here.
They have the major benefit that they always stick to the surface of the object
even when it is animated with an armature
that makes them very vital for most production environments.
But this comes with the cost of having to unwrap
the object from three dimensional space into two dimensional space.
And usually there has to be done manually.
It also creates these seems that have to be hidden. Somehow
There can be multiple benefits to having a two dimensional coordinate space.
You can use textures that have a preferred
direction without having to worry about warping.
And you can decide for the flow of the texture on the surface.
Object coordinates, as the name suggests are completely anchored to the object.
They are centered around the objects origin and connected to the objects location,
rotation and scale.
Object coordinates are one of my go to tax the coordinates
but they are connected to the object without being influenced by the mesh itself.
So whenever you don't need a specific property of another coordinate map,
I recommend using object coordinates
but keep in mind that the position of your objects origin
and rotation and scale matter.
So if the coordinate spaces really stretched,
you might want to apply an objects transformation.
You can also choose the orientation of the coordinates by going
into the transform options and checking to affect only origins.
This is a great way to change the coordinate space within an object
but you can also outsource the object coordinate space to another object.
Local coordinates
for example,
I can create an empty object and link it in
the object field down in the texture corner note.
And I can choose the use coordinate space without changing the main object at all.
The most prominent use of object coordinates in the
example file is on all the wooden elements.
As you can see the texture on this block of
wood is based on the structure of an actual tree
and I can just change the shape around
and it just works like that.
Camera coordinates are locked to the view.
So when you are in camera view
you can see that they are oriented along with the camera object
but they are in general not locked to the active camera object itself.
Even when you are not encounter of you,
they work with the orientation of the view port.
That means that the origin of the xy plane sits in the center of the
view and the zet access is essentially giving
information of the distance to the camera.
These coordinates can be used as a death pass within the shader to create fake missed
and in general can be used to create effects that should be stuck to the view.
Window coordinates are two dimensional along the X
and Y coordinate of the view port.
They range from 0 to 1 and scale along with the window.
When you are in camera view,
they are locked to the bounds of the camera so it looks like it does for rendering
they can be used for example to create a radial gradient in the world
trader that sticks to the window at all times and works as a background
reflection coordinates.
Just like normals are no coordinates in the sense of location.
They give you information about the direction of a ray that
would be reflected on the surface coming from the viewer.
You can use it for example to generate fake reflections from a specified angle.
I want to mention one other coordinate space which
is not listed in the texture coordinate node.
There is another very useful coordinate type hidden in the geometry.
Note the position coordinates.
They are anchored to nothing else but the world and thus our global coordinates.
They can be very useful to generate textures that are consistent
of a multiple objects and don't stick to each object individually
and also to create global effects.
In the example seen,
I am using them to generate a gradient of dust from
the bottom up on the wooden bars and the stone walls.
As you can see on the geometry node,
there are several more inputs and of course a whole lot more nodes with
even more inputs that you can use as a source to create traders from.
I will not go over every note and every socket that there is
but rather show you those most useful for a procedural shading workflow.
Most of these I will only show organically during the course when they are needed.
So if you want to look up a specific note, I recommend you check out the blender.
Manual page at dark start blender, the dog.
Do you have a short description for every
note and socket and screenshots where it's useful?
You can just use the search bar and
read about the individual functionality of each note